connectors/README.md, before:

# Kafka Connectors for TxEventQ

Repository for the Kafka Sink Connector and Kafka Source Connector for Oracle Transactional Event Queues application.
The repository contains an application for a Sink Connector that reads from Kafka and stores into Oracle's TxEventQ.
The repository also contains an application for a Source Connector that reads from an Oracle TxEventQ and stores into a Kafka topic.

## Getting started

To use the application Kafka with a minimum version number of 3.1.0 will need to be downloaded and installed on a server. Refer to [Kafka Apache](https://kafka.apache.org/) for
information on how to start Kafka. Refer to this [Confluent](https://docs.confluent.io/platform/current/kafka/authentication_ssl.html#crep-full) page
for information on how to setup SSL connection for Kafka.

The Kafka Sink and Source Connector requires a minimum Oracle Database version of 21c in order to create a Transactional Event Queue. 

Clone the project from the repository. Open a bash window and change the directory to the location where the cloned project has been saved.
Run the following command from the bash window to compile the source.

```bash
mvn clean package
```

You will need to grab the following jar files from the \target\libs directory after performing the build command above and place them into Kafka's libs directory.

* `ojdbc11-<version>.jar`
* `oraclepki-<version>.jar`
* `osdt_core-<version>.jar`
* `osdt_cert-<version>.jar`
* `aqapi-<version>.jar`
* `javax.jms-api-<version>.jar`
* `jta-<version>.jar`

**Note:** The TxEventQ Connector jar file can be downloaded from this [maven repository](https://mvnrepository.com/artifact/com.oracle.database.messaging/txeventq-connector) if you don't want
to build the jar. You will still need to get the additional jar files mentioned above and place in the required location.

### Oracle Database Setup
To run the Kafka Sink and Source Connector against Oracle Database, a database user should be created and should be granted the below privileges.

```roomsql
create user <username> identified by <password>
grant connect, resource to user
grant execute on dbms_aqadm to use
grant execute on dbms_aqin to user
grant execute on dbms_aqjms to user
grant select_catalog_role to user
```

Once user is created and above privileges are granted, connect to Oracle Database as this user and create a Transactional Event Queue using below PL/SQL script.
In the below script `SHARD_NUM` parameter for TxEventQ is set to 1, but this value should be modified to be less than or equal to the number of Kafka partitions
assigned to the Kafka topic that the Sink Connector will be consuming from. The Sink Connector supports a JMS type Transactional Event Queue.

```roomsql
exec sys.dbms_aqadm.create_sharded_queue(queue_name=>"TxEventQ", multiple_consumers => TRUE); 
exec sys.dbms_aqadm.set_queue_parameter('TxEventQ', 'SHARD_NUM', 1);
exec sys.dbms_aqadm.set_queue_parameter('TxEventQ', 'KEY_BASED_ENQUEUE', 2);
exec sys.dbms_aqadm.start_queue('TxEventQ');
exec sys.dbms_aqadm.add_subscriber('TxEventQ', SYS.AQ$_AGENT('SUB1', NULL, 0));
```

**If using the Source Connector and ordering of the events are important then the Transactional Event Queue that the Kakfa Source connector will be pulling from should have the `STICKY_DEQUEUE` parameter set. The `SHARD_NUM` assigned to the queue should be less than or equal to the number of Kafka partitions assigned to the Kafka topic.**

**Note: If running on a database version less than 23.4 with `STICKY_DEQUEUE` the `tasks.max` value must be equal to the `SHARD_NUM` specified. If the `tasks.max` is not equal to the `SHARD_NUM` dequeue from all event streams will not be performed.**

```roomsql
exec sys.dbms_aqadm.create_sharded_queue(queue_name=>"TxEventQ", multiple_consumers => TRUE); 
exec sys.dbms_aqadm.set_queue_parameter('TxEventQ', 'SHARD_NUM', 1);
exec sys.dbms_aqadm.set_queue_parameter('TxEventQ', 'STICKY_DEQUEUE', 1);
exec sys.dbms_aqadm.set_queue_parameter('TxEventQ', 'KEY_BASED_ENQUEUE', 2);
exec sys.dbms_aqadm.start_queue('TxEventQ');
exec sys.dbms_aqadm.add_subscriber('TxEventQ', SYS.AQ$_AGENT('SUB1', NULL, 0));
```

### Setup Oracle RAC Cluster for Cross Instance Enqueues
If running an Oracle RAC cluster read the instructions here for [User Event Streaming](https://docs.oracle.com/en/database/oracle/oracle-database/23/adque/aq-performance-scalability.html#GUID-423633E9-9B72-45B5-9C3E-95386BBEDBA0)
to properly configure the **REMOTE_LISTENER** parameter. The **REMOTE_LISTENER** configuration is necessary to produce messages to the event stream mapped to the respective Kafka partition. If the
**REMOTE_LISTENER** parameter is not configured, the sink connector will fail with `ORA-25348`. **Note:** Also set the isRac property to true in the `connect-txeventq-sink.properties` file.

### Steps to Create an Oracle Wallet

Create or modify a tnsnames.ora file. The entry in the file should have the following form.

```text
alias=(DESCRIPTION=(ADDRESS=(PROTOCOL=TCP)(HOST=host)(PORT=port))(CONNECT_DATA=(SERVICE_NAME=service)))
```

An Oracle Wallet will also need to be created in order for the Connector to connect to the database.
Refer to the following site for additional details on how to create an Oracle Wallet [JDBC Thin Connections with a Wallet](https://docs.oracle.com/en/cloud/paas/autonomous-database/adbsa/connect-jdbc-thin-wallet.html#GUID-BE543CFD-6FB4-4C5B-A2EA-9638EC30900D)
and [orapki Utility](https://docs.oracle.com/cd/B19306_01/network.102/b14268/asoappf.htm#CDEFHBGA).

Oracle recommends creating and managing the Wallet in a database environment since this environment provides all the necessary commands and libraries,
including the $ORACLE_HOME/oracle_common/bin/mkstore command.

Enter the following command to create a wallet:

```bash
mkstore -wrl <wallet_location> -create
```

The mkstore command above will prompt for a password that will be used for subsequent commands. Passwords must have a minimum length of eight characters and contain alphabetic characters combined with numbers or special characters.
If the create is successful when you go to the wallet location specified above a couple of cwallet and ewallet files should have been created in that directory.

Enter the following command to add the credential for the data source name added previously to tnsnames.ora to the Oracle Wallet:

```bash
mkstore -wrl <wallet_location> -createCredential <alias name from tnsnames.ora> <username> <password>
```

If a password is requested enter in the password from the step above.

The wallet directory that will need to be specified in the connection properties file below should contain the following files.

- cwallet.sso
- ewallet.p12

### Setup the Connection Properties

Copy the example properties files for the sink connector or the source connector below into a text editor and update all the required fields as noted below and save the properties
file as any file name, for example `connect-txeventq-sink.properties` or `connect-txeventq-source.properties` and place the properites file in the Kafka config directory.

Here is the full `connect-txeventq-sink.properties` file below.

```text
name=TxEventQ-sink
connector.class=oracle.jdbc.txeventq.kafka.connect.sink.TxEventQSinkConnector

# Maximum number of tasks to use for this connector.
tasks.max=1

# The Kafka topic to read the data from.
# Note: This property will need to be updated before the Sink Connector can connect.
topics=<Kafka topic>

# Indicate the directory location of where the Oracle wallet is place i.e. C:/tmp/wallet.
# The cwallet.sso and ewallet.p12 files should be placed into this directory.
# Oracle Wallet provides a simple and easy method to manage database credentials across multiple domains.
# We will be using the Oracle TNS (Transport Network Substrate) administrative file to hide the details
# of the database connection string (host name, port number, and service name) from the datasource definition
# and instead us an alias.
# Note: This property will need to be updated before the Sink Connector can connect.
wallet.path=<wallet directory>

# Indicate the directory location of the where the tnsnames.ora location is located i.e C:/tmp/tnsnames.
# The entry in the tnsnames.ora should have the following format: 
# <aliasname> = (DESCRIPTION =(ADDRESS_LIST =(ADDRESS = (PROTOCOL = TCP)(Host = <hostname>)(Port = <port>)))
#(CONNECT_DATA =(SERVICE_NAME = <service_name>)))
# Note: This property will need to be updated before the Sink Connector can connect.
tnsnames.path=<tnsnames.ora directory>

# The TNS alias name for the database to connect to stored in the tnsnames.ora.
# An Oracle Wallet must be created and will be used to connect to the database.
# Note: This property will need to be updated before the Sink Connector can connect.
db_tns_alias=<tns alias>

# The TxEventQ to put the Kafka data into.
# Note: This property will need to be updated before the Sink Connector can connect.
txeventq.queue.name=<txEventQ queue name>

# The name of the schema for the txEventQ queue specified in the txeventq.queue.name property.
# Note: This property will need to be updated to ensure exactly-once delivery.
txeventq.queue.schema=<schema for the txEventQ queue>

# List of Kafka brokers used for bootstrapping
# format: host1:port1,host2:port2 ...
# Note: This property will need to be updated before the Sink Connector can connect.
bootstrap.servers=<broker i.e localhost:9092>

# Converter class used to convert between Kafka Connect format and the serialized form that is written to Kafka.
# This controls the format of the keys in messages written to or read from Kafka, and since this is independent
# of connectors it allows any connector to work with any serialization format.
key.converter=org.apache.kafka.connect.storage.StringConverter

# Converter class used to convert between Kafka Connect format and the serialized form that is written to Kafka.
# This controls the format of the values in messages written to or read from Kafka, and since this is independent
# of connectors it allows any connector to work with any serialization format.
value.converter=org.apache.kafka.connect.storage.StringConverter

```

Here is the full `connect-txeventq-source.properties` file below.

```text
name=TxEventQ-source
connector.class=oracle.jdbc.txeventq.kafka.connect.source.TxEventQSourceConnector

# If the transactional event queue has STICKY_DEQUEUE set and running on a database version less than 23.4
# the tasks.max number specified must be equal to the number of event streams (SHARD_NUM) for the queue.
# If the `tasks.max` is not equal to the event streams (SHARD_NUM) dequeue from all event streams will not be performed when
# using a database with a version less than 23.4.
tasks.max=1

# The maximum number of messages in a batch. The default batch size is 1024.
batch.size=1024

# The name of the Kafka topic where the connector writes all records that were read from the JMS broker.
# Note: This property will need to be updated before the Source Connector can connect.
kafka.topic=<Kafka topic>

# Converter class used to convert between Kafka Connect format and the serialized form that is written to Kafka.
# This controls the format of the keys in messages written to or read from Kafka, and since this is independent
# of connectors it allows any connector to work with any serialization format.
key.converter=org.apache.kafka.connect.storage.StringConverter

# Converter class used to convert between Kafka Connect format and the serialized form that is written to Kafka.
# This controls the format of the values in messages written to or read from Kafka, and since this is independent
# of connectors it allows any connector to work with any serialization format.
value.converter=org.apache.kafka.connect.converters.ByteArrayConverter

# Indicate the directory location of where the Oracle wallet is placed i.e. C:/tmp/wallet.
# The cwallet.sso, ewallet.p12, and tnsnames.ora files should be placed into this directory.
# Oracle Wallet provides a simple and easy method to manage database credentials across multiple domains.
# We will be using the Oracle TNS (Transport Network Substrate) administrative file to hide the details
# of the database connection string (host name, port number, and service name) from the datasource definition
# and instead us an alias.
# Note: This property will need to be updated before the Source Connector can connect.
wallet.path=<wallet directory>

# The TNS alias name for the database to connect to stored in the tnsnames.ora.
# An Oracle Wallet must be created and will be used to connect to the database.
# Note: This property will need to be updated before the Source Connector can connect.
db_tns_alias=<tns alias>

# The TxEventQ to pull data from to put into the specified Kafka topic.
# Note: This property will need to be updated before the Source Connector can connect.
txeventq.queue.name=<txEventQ queue name>

# The subscriber for the TxEventQ that data will be pulled from to put into the specified Kafka topic.
# Note: This property will need to be updated before the Source Connector can connect.
txeventq.subscriber=<txEventQ subscriber>

# List of Kafka brokers used for bootstrapping
# format: host1:port1,host2:port2 ...
# Note: This property will need to be updated before the Source Connector can connect.
bootstrap.servers=<broker i.e localhost:9092>

```

### Running TxEventQ Kafka connect sink or source connectors

Update Kafka's `connect-standalone.properties` or `connect-distributed.properties` configuration file located in Kafka's config directory `plugin.path=` property with the 
directory path to where the jar file for the Sink Connector is located.

In the Kafaka's config directory locate and open the zookeeper.properties file and update th dataDir property with the directory path where you installed Kafka.
The property should have a value such as dataDir=c:/kafka/zookeeper-data if the path to Kafka is c:\kafka. The same file will need to be updated in a Linux environment,
but use the relevant linux path for Kafka.

Now in the same Kafka config directory locate and open the server.properties file and locate the log.dirs and add the Kafka directory path to the /kafka-logs.
The property should have a value such as log.dirs=c:/kafka/kafka-logs if the path to Kafka is c:\kafka. The same file will need to be updated in a Linux environment,
but use the relevant linux path for Kafka.

If running Kafka in a Windows environment open 3 different command prompt windows and change to the directory where Kafka has been installed.

Run the following command in one of the command prompt windows to start zookeeper:

```bash
.\bin\windows\zookeeper-server-start.bat .\config\zookeeper.properties
```

In another command prompt start the Kafka server by running the following command:

```bash
.\bin\windows\kafka-server-start.bat .\config\server.properties
```

In the third command prompt start the connector in either standalone (connect-standalone.bat) or distributed (connect-distributed.bat) mode by running the following command.
The command below is connecting in standalone mode. If you want to run the source connector replace the properties file below with the properties file for the source connector.

```bash
.\bin\windows\connect-standalone.bat .\config\connect-standalone.properties .\config\connect-txeventq-sink.properties
```

If connecting in distributed mode on a Windows environment enter the following command in a command prompt.

```bash
.\bin\windows\connect-distributed.bat .\config\connect-distributed.properties 
```

If running Kafka in a Linux environment open 3 different terminals and change to the directory where Kafka has been installed.

Run the following command in one of the terminals to start zookeeper:

```bash
bin/zookeeper-server-start.sh config/zookeeper.properties 
```

In another terminal start the Kafka server by running the following command:

```bash
bin/kafka-server-start.sh config/server.properties 
```

In the third terminal start the connector in either standalone (connect-standalone.sh) or distributed (connect-distributed.sh) mode by running the following command.
The command below is connecting in standalone mode. If you want to run the source connector replace the properties file below with the properties file for the source connector.

```bash
bin/connect-standalone.sh config/connect-standalone.properties config/connect-TxEventQ-sink.properties 
```

If connecting in distributed mode on a Linux environment enter the following command in a command prompt.

```bash
bin/connect-distributed.sh config/connect-distributed.properties
```

Use REST calls to post configuration properties when running in distributed mode. An example of a JSON configuration is shown below.

```bash
{
        "connector.class": "oracle.jdbc.txeventq.kafka.connect.source.TxEventQSourceConnector",
        "tasks.max": "5",
        "kafka.topic": <Kafka topic>,
        "value.converter": "org.apache.kafka.connect.converters.ByteArrayConverter",
        "db_tns_alias": <tns alias>,
        "wallet.path": <specify wallet path>,
        "tnsnames.path": <specify tnsnames path>,
        "txeventq.queue.name": <txEventQ queue name>,
        "txeventq.subscriber": <txEventQ subscriber>,
        "bootstrap.servers": <broker i.e localhost:9092>
}
```

Commit message:

Update information in Readme file.

connectors/README.md, after:

# Kafka Connectors for TxEventQ

Repository for the Kafka Sink Connector and Kafka Source Connector for Oracle Transactional Event Queues application.
The repository contains an application for a Sink Connector that reads from Kafka and stores into Oracle's TxEventQ.
The repository also contains an application for a Source Connector that reads from an Oracle TxEventQ and stores into a Kafka topic.

## Getting started

To use the application Kafka with a minimum version number of 3.1.0 will need to be downloaded and installed on a server. Refer to [Kafka Apache](https://kafka.apache.org/) for
information on how to start Kafka. Refer to this [Confluent](https://docs.confluent.io/platform/current/kafka/authentication_ssl.html#crep-full) page
for information on how to setup SSL connection for Kafka.

The Kafka Sink and Source Connector requires a minimum Oracle Database version of 21c in order to create a Transactional Event Queue. 

Clone the project from the repository. Open a bash window and change the directory to the location where the cloned project has been saved.
Run the following command from the bash window to compile the source.

```bash
mvn clean package
```

You will need to grab the following jar files from the \target\libs directory after performing the build command above and place them into Kafka's libs directory.

* `ojdbc11-<version>.jar`
* `oraclepki-<version>.jar`
* `osdt_core-<version>.jar`
* `osdt_cert-<version>.jar`
* `aqapi-<version>.jar`
* `javax.jms-api-<version>.jar`
* `jta-<version>.jar`

**Note:** The TxEventQ Connector jar file can be downloaded from this [maven repository](https://mvnrepository.com/artifact/com.oracle.database.messaging/txeventq-connector) if you don't want
to build the jar. You will still need to get the additional jar files mentioned above and place in the required location.

### Oracle Database Setup
To run the Kafka Sink and Source Connector against Oracle Database, a database user should be created and should be granted the below privileges.

```roomsql
create user <username> identified by <password>
grant connect, resource to user
grant execute on dbms_aqadm to use
grant execute on dbms_aqin to user
grant execute on dbms_aqjms to user
grant select_catalog_role to user
```

Once user is created and above privileges are granted, connect to Oracle Database as this user and create a Transactional Event Queue using below PL/SQL script.
In the below script `SHARD_NUM` parameter for TxEventQ is set to 1, but this value should be modified to be less than or equal to the number of Kafka partitions
assigned to the Kafka topic that the Sink Connector will be consuming from. The Sink Connector supports a JMS type Transactional Event Queue.

```roomsql
exec sys.dbms_aqadm.create_sharded_queue(queue_name=>"TxEventQ", multiple_consumers => TRUE); 
exec sys.dbms_aqadm.set_queue_parameter('TxEventQ', 'SHARD_NUM', 1);
exec sys.dbms_aqadm.set_queue_parameter('TxEventQ', 'KEY_BASED_ENQUEUE', 2);
exec sys.dbms_aqadm.start_queue('TxEventQ');
exec sys.dbms_aqadm.add_subscriber('TxEventQ', SYS.AQ$_AGENT('SUB1', NULL, 0));
```

**If using the Source Connector and ordering of the events are important then the Transactional Event Queue that the Kakfa Source connector will be pulling from should have the `STICKY_DEQUEUE` parameter set. The `SHARD_NUM` assigned to the queue should be less than or equal to the number of Kafka partitions assigned to the Kafka topic.**

**Note: If running on a database version less than 23.4 with `STICKY_DEQUEUE` the `tasks.max` value must be equal to the `SHARD_NUM` specified. If the `tasks.max` is not equal to the `SHARD_NUM` dequeue from all event streams will not be performed.**

```roomsql
exec sys.dbms_aqadm.create_sharded_queue(queue_name=>"TxEventQ", multiple_consumers => TRUE); 
exec sys.dbms_aqadm.set_queue_parameter('TxEventQ', 'SHARD_NUM', 1);
exec sys.dbms_aqadm.set_queue_parameter('TxEventQ', 'STICKY_DEQUEUE', 1);
exec sys.dbms_aqadm.set_queue_parameter('TxEventQ', 'KEY_BASED_ENQUEUE', 2);
exec sys.dbms_aqadm.start_queue('TxEventQ');
exec sys.dbms_aqadm.add_subscriber('TxEventQ', SYS.AQ$_AGENT('SUB1', NULL, 0));
```
### Oracle Database Automatic Memory Management 
It is recommended that the database be configured to allow automatic memory management. Refer to [About Automatic Memory Management](https://docs.oracle.com/en/database/oracle/oracle-database/23/admin/managing-memory.html#GUID-0F348EAB-9970-4207-8EF3-0F58B64E959A)
for information on how to allow the Oracle Database instance to automatically manage instance memory.

### Setup Oracle RAC Cluster for Cross Instance Enqueues
If running an Oracle RAC cluster read the instructions here for [User Event Streaming](https://docs.oracle.com/en/database/oracle/oracle-database/23/adque/aq-performance-scalability.html#GUID-423633E9-9B72-45B5-9C3E-95386BBEDBA0)
to properly configure the **REMOTE_LISTENER** parameter. The **REMOTE_LISTENER** configuration is necessary to produce messages to the event stream mapped to the respective Kafka partition. If the
**REMOTE_LISTENER** parameter is not configured, the sink connector will fail with `ORA-25348`.

### Steps to Create an Oracle Wallet

Create or modify a tnsnames.ora file. The entry in the file should have the following form.

```text
alias=(DESCRIPTION=(ADDRESS=(PROTOCOL=TCP)(HOST=host)(PORT=port))(CONNECT_DATA=(SERVICE_NAME=service)))
```

An Oracle Wallet will also need to be created in order for the Connector to connect to the database.
Refer to the following site for additional details on how to create an Oracle Wallet [JDBC Thin Connections with a Wallet](https://docs.oracle.com/en/cloud/paas/autonomous-database/adbsa/connect-jdbc-thin-wallet.html#GUID-BE543CFD-6FB4-4C5B-A2EA-9638EC30900D)
and [orapki Utility](https://docs.oracle.com/cd/B19306_01/network.102/b14268/asoappf.htm#CDEFHBGA).

Oracle recommends creating and managing the Wallet in a database environment since this environment provides all the necessary commands and libraries,
including the $ORACLE_HOME/oracle_common/bin/mkstore command.

Enter the following command to create a wallet:

```bash
mkstore -wrl <wallet_location> -create
```

The mkstore command above will prompt for a password that will be used for subsequent commands. Passwords must have a minimum length of eight characters and contain alphabetic characters combined with numbers or special characters.
If the create is successful when you go to the wallet location specified above a couple of cwallet and ewallet files should have been created in that directory.

Enter the following command to add the credential for the data source name added previously to tnsnames.ora to the Oracle Wallet:

```bash
mkstore -wrl <wallet_location> -createCredential <alias name from tnsnames.ora> <username> <password>
```

If a password is requested enter in the password from the step above.

The wallet directory that will need to be specified in the connection properties file below should contain the following files.

- cwallet.sso
- ewallet.p12

### Setup the Connection Properties

Copy the example properties files for the sink connector or the source connector below into a text editor and update all the required fields as noted below and save the properties
file as any file name, for example `connect-txeventq-sink.properties` or `connect-txeventq-source.properties` and place the properites file in the Kafka config directory.

Here is the full `connect-txeventq-sink.properties` file below.

```text
name=TxEventQ-sink
connector.class=oracle.jdbc.txeventq.kafka.connect.sink.TxEventQSinkConnector

# Maximum number of tasks to use for this connector.
tasks.max=1

# The Kafka topic to read the data from.
# Note: This property will need to be updated before the Sink Connector can connect.
topics=<Kafka topic>

# Indicate the directory location of where the Oracle wallet is place i.e. C:/tmp/wallet.
# The cwallet.sso and ewallet.p12 files should be placed into this directory.
# Oracle Wallet provides a simple and easy method to manage database credentials across multiple domains.
# We will be using the Oracle TNS (Transport Network Substrate) administrative file to hide the details
# of the database connection string (host name, port number, and service name) from the datasource definition
# and instead us an alias.
# Note: This property will need to be updated before the Sink Connector can connect.
wallet.path=<wallet directory>

# Indicate the directory location of the where the tnsnames.ora location is located i.e C:/tmp/tnsnames.
# The entry in the tnsnames.ora should have the following format: 
# <aliasname> = (DESCRIPTION =(ADDRESS_LIST =(ADDRESS = (PROTOCOL = TCP)(Host = <hostname>)(Port = <port>)))
#(CONNECT_DATA =(SERVICE_NAME = <service_name>)))
# Note: This property will need to be updated before the Sink Connector can connect.
tnsnames.path=<tnsnames.ora directory>

# The TNS alias name for the database to connect to stored in the tnsnames.ora.
# An Oracle Wallet must be created and will be used to connect to the database.
# Note: This property will need to be updated before the Sink Connector can connect.
db_tns_alias=<tns alias>

# The TxEventQ to put the Kafka data into.
# Note: This property will need to be updated before the Sink Connector can connect.
txeventq.queue.name=<txEventQ queue name>

# The name of the schema for the txEventQ queue specified in the txeventq.queue.name property.
# Note: This property will need to be updated to ensure exactly-once delivery.
txeventq.queue.schema=<schema for the txEventQ queue>

# List of Kafka brokers used for bootstrapping
# format: host1:port1,host2:port2 ...
# Note: This property will need to be updated before the Sink Connector can connect.
bootstrap.servers=<broker i.e localhost:9092>

# Converter class used to convert between Kafka Connect format and the serialized form that is written to Kafka.
# This controls the format of the keys in messages written to or read from Kafka, and since this is independent
# of connectors it allows any connector to work with any serialization format.
key.converter=org.apache.kafka.connect.storage.StringConverter

# Converter class used to convert between Kafka Connect format and the serialized form that is written to Kafka.
# This controls the format of the values in messages written to or read from Kafka, and since this is independent
# of connectors it allows any connector to work with any serialization format.
value.converter=org.apache.kafka.connect.storage.StringConverter

```

Here is the full `connect-txeventq-source.properties` file below.

```text
name=TxEventQ-source
connector.class=oracle.jdbc.txeventq.kafka.connect.source.TxEventQSourceConnector

# If the transactional event queue has STICKY_DEQUEUE set and running on a database version less than 23.4
# the tasks.max number specified must be equal to the number of event streams (SHARD_NUM) for the queue.
# If the `tasks.max` is not equal to the event streams (SHARD_NUM) dequeue from all event streams will not be performed when
# using a database with a version less than 23.4.
tasks.max=1

# The maximum number of messages in a batch. The default batch size is 1024.
batch.size=1024

# The name of the Kafka topic where the connector writes all records that were read from the JMS broker.
# Note: This property will need to be updated before the Source Connector can connect.
kafka.topic=<Kafka topic>

# Converter class used to convert between Kafka Connect format and the serialized form that is written to Kafka.
# This controls the format of the keys in messages written to or read from Kafka, and since this is independent
# of connectors it allows any connector to work with any serialization format.
key.converter=org.apache.kafka.connect.storage.StringConverter

# Converter class used to convert between Kafka Connect format and the serialized form that is written to Kafka.
# This controls the format of the values in messages written to or read from Kafka, and since this is independent
# of connectors it allows any connector to work with any serialization format.
value.converter=org.apache.kafka.connect.converters.ByteArrayConverter

# Indicate the directory location of where the Oracle wallet is placed i.e. C:/tmp/wallet.
# The cwallet.sso, ewallet.p12, and tnsnames.ora files should be placed into this directory.
# Oracle Wallet provides a simple and easy method to manage database credentials across multiple domains.
# We will be using the Oracle TNS (Transport Network Substrate) administrative file to hide the details
# of the database connection string (host name, port number, and service name) from the datasource definition
# and instead us an alias.
# Note: This property will need to be updated before the Source Connector can connect.
wallet.path=<wallet directory>

# The TNS alias name for the database to connect to stored in the tnsnames.ora.
# An Oracle Wallet must be created and will be used to connect to the database.
# Note: This property will need to be updated before the Source Connector can connect.
db_tns_alias=<tns alias>

# The TxEventQ to pull data from to put into the specified Kafka topic.
# Note: This property will need to be updated before the Source Connector can connect.
txeventq.queue.name=<txEventQ queue name>

# The subscriber for the TxEventQ that data will be pulled from to put into the specified Kafka topic.
# Note: This property will need to be updated before the Source Connector can connect.
txeventq.subscriber=<txEventQ subscriber>

# List of Kafka brokers used for bootstrapping
# format: host1:port1,host2:port2 ...
# Note: This property will need to be updated before the Source Connector can connect.
bootstrap.servers=<broker i.e localhost:9092>

```

### Running TxEventQ Kafka connect sink or source connectors

Update Kafka's `connect-standalone.properties` or `connect-distributed.properties` configuration file located in Kafka's config directory `plugin.path=` property with the 
directory path to where the jar file for the connectors is located. Add the `consumer.max.poll.records` property to either the `connect-standalone.properties` or `connect-distributed.properties`
to increase the number of records that will be sent by the sink connector for each poll. The default value for the `consumer.max.poll.records` is 500. 

In the Kafaka's config directory locate and open the zookeeper.properties file and update th dataDir property with the directory path where you installed Kafka.
The property should have a value such as dataDir=c:/kafka/zookeeper-data if the path to Kafka is c:\kafka. The same file will need to be updated in a Linux environment,
but use the relevant linux path for Kafka.

Now in the same Kafka config directory locate and open the server.properties file and locate the log.dirs and add the Kafka directory path to the /kafka-logs.
The property should have a value such as log.dirs=c:/kafka/kafka-logs if the path to Kafka is c:\kafka. The same file will need to be updated in a Linux environment,
but use the relevant linux path for Kafka.

If running Kafka in a Windows environment open 3 different command prompt windows and change to the directory where Kafka has been installed.

Run the following command in one of the command prompt windows to start zookeeper:

```bash
.\bin\windows\zookeeper-server-start.bat .\config\zookeeper.properties
```

In another command prompt start the Kafka server by running the following command:

```bash
.\bin\windows\kafka-server-start.bat .\config\server.properties
```

In the third command prompt start the connector in either standalone (connect-standalone.bat) or distributed (connect-distributed.bat) mode by running the following command.
The command below is connecting in standalone mode. If you want to run the source connector replace the properties file below with the properties file for the source connector.

```bash
.\bin\windows\connect-standalone.bat .\config\connect-standalone.properties .\config\connect-txeventq-sink.properties
```

If connecting in distributed mode on a Windows environment enter the following command in a command prompt.

```bash
.\bin\windows\connect-distributed.bat .\config\connect-distributed.properties 
```

If running Kafka in a Linux environment open 3 different terminals and change to the directory where Kafka has been installed.

Run the following command in one of the terminals to start zookeeper:

```bash
bin/zookeeper-server-start.sh config/zookeeper.properties 
```

In another terminal start the Kafka server by running the following command:

```bash
bin/kafka-server-start.sh config/server.properties 
```

In the third terminal start the connector in either standalone (connect-standalone.sh) or distributed (connect-distributed.sh) mode by running the following command.
The command below is connecting in standalone mode. If you want to run the source connector replace the properties file below with the properties file for the source connector.

```bash
bin/connect-standalone.sh config/connect-standalone.properties config/connect-TxEventQ-sink.properties 
```

If connecting in distributed mode on a Linux environment enter the following command in a command prompt.

```bash
bin/connect-distributed.sh config/connect-distributed.properties
```

Use REST calls to post configuration properties when running in distributed mode. An example of a JSON configuration is shown below.

```bash
{
        "connector.class": "oracle.jdbc.txeventq.kafka.connect.source.TxEventQSourceConnector",
        "tasks.max": "5",
        "kafka.topic": <Kafka topic>,
        "value.converter": "org.apache.kafka.connect.converters.ByteArrayConverter",
        "db_tns_alias": <tns alias>,
        "wallet.path": <specify wallet path>,
        "tnsnames.path": <specify tnsnames path>,
        "txeventq.queue.name": <txEventQ queue name>,
        "txeventq.subscriber": <txEventQ subscriber>,
        "bootstrap.servers": <broker i.e localhost:9092>
}
```
